---
source: https://shopify.dev/docs/api/liquid/objects/section
---

The properties and settings of a section.

---

Tip

To learn about sections and using them in a theme, refer to [Sections](/themes/architecture/sections).

**Tip:**

To learn about sections and using them in a theme, refer to [Sections](/themes/architecture/sections).

**Tip:** To learn about sections and using them in a theme, refer to <a href="/themes/architecture/sections">Sections</a>.

---

## Properties

[Anchor to](/docs/api/liquid/objects/section#section-blocks) 

blocks**blocks** array of [block](/docs/api/liquid/objects/block)

:   The blocks of the section.

[Anchor to](/docs/api/liquid/objects/section#section-id) 

id**id** [string](/docs/api/liquid/basics#string)

:   The ID of the section.

    The ID for sections included through [JSON templates](/themes/architecture/templates/json-templates) are dynamically
    generated by Shopify.

    The ID for static sections is the section file name without the `.liquid` extension. For example, a `header.liquid`
    section has an ID of `header`.

[Anchor to](/docs/api/liquid/objects/section#section-index) 

index**index** [number](/docs/api/liquid/basics#number)

:   The 1-based index of the current section within its location.

    Use this property to adjust section behavior based on its position within its location ([template](/docs/themes/architecture/templates), [section group](/docs/themes/architecture/section-groups)) and on the page. The `index` starts at 1 within each location.

    An example use case is for programmatically setting `loading="lazy"` for images below the fold based on an index higher than, for example, 3. Note that this is now the default behavior for the [`image_tag` filter](/docs/api/liquid/filters#image_tag).

    Only use this for non-display use cases like web performance. Because of various limitations, the `index` property returns `nil` in the following contexts:

    * When rendered as a [static section](/docs/themes/architecture/sections#statically-render-a-section)
    * While rendering in the online store editor
    * When using the [Section Rendering API](/docs/api/section-rendering)

[Anchor to](/docs/api/liquid/objects/section#section-index0) 

index0**index0** [number](/docs/api/liquid/basics#number)

:   The 0-based index of the current section within its location.

    This is the same as the `index` property except that the index starts at 0 instead of 1.

[Anchor to](/docs/api/liquid/objects/section#section-location) 

location**location** [string](/docs/api/liquid/basics#string)

:   The scope or context of the section (template, section group, or global).

    Sections can have one of four different location types. For sections rendered within a [template](/docs/themes/architecture/templates), the location will be `template`. For sections rendered within a [section group](/docs/themes/architecture/section-groups), the location will be the section group type, e.g., `header`, `footer`, `custom.<type>`. Sections [rendered statically](/docs/themes/architecture/sections#statically-render-a-section) will be `static`. Finally, if you're still using `content_for_index`, then the value will be `content_for_index`.

[Anchor to](/docs/api/liquid/objects/section#section-settings) 

settings**settings**

:   The [settings](https://shopify.dev/themes/architecture/sections/section-schema#settings) of the section.

    To learn about how to access settings, refer to [Access settings](/themes/architecture/settings#access-settings).

9

1

2

3

4

5

{

"blocks": [],

"id": "template--14453298921537\_\_cart-items",

"settings": {}

}

##### Example

```liquid
{
  "blocks": [],
  "id": "template--14453298921537__cart-items",
  "settings": {}
}
```

Was this section helpful?

YesNo