---
source: https://shopify.dev/docs/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations
---

Displaying recommended products to customers makes it easier for them to discover new products, and can help to increase online store sales.

Before you add product recommendations to your theme, it's a good idea to get familiar with the following:

* **[Recommendation intents](#recommendation-intents)**
* **[How to track recommendations](#track-recommendations)**

  To learn how to include recommendations in your theme, refer to [Related products](/docs/storefronts/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations/related-products) and [Complementary products](/docs/storefronts/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations/complementary-products). You can also refer to [Dawn's implementation](https://github.com/Shopify/dawn/blob/main/sections/related-products.liquid).

---

## [Anchor to Recommendation intents](/docs/storefronts/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations#recommendation-intents)Recommendation intents

Tailoring product recommendations across the customer's journey is a powerful way to help customers discover products. Recommendation intents are designed to recommend products using a targeted strategy.

Shopify provides the following types of recommendation intents:

* [**Related products**](/docs/storefronts/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations/related-products): Offer customers a mix of products that are similar to a product the customer is interacting with. An example is substitutable products that display in a **You might also like** section.
* [**Complementary products**](/docs/storefronts/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations/complementary-products): Offer customers products that are complementary to a product the customer is interacting with. An example is add-on products that display in a **Pair it with** section.

  Only related recommendations are auto-generated by Shopify. Complementary recommendations need to be manually set up. Recommended products for each intent can be configured using the [Shopify Search & Discovery app](https://apps.shopify.com/search-and-discovery).

---

## [Anchor to Track recommendations](/docs/storefronts/themes/product-merchandising/recommendations#track-recommendations)Track recommendations

To track your product recommendations in Shopify, you need to use the format for product URLs that's specified by the API. To learn more, refer to [Tracking conversions for product recommendations](/docs/api/ajax/reference/product-recommendations#tracking-conversions-for-product-recommendations).

After you've implemented product recommendations, you can track how effective they are directly from the **Analytics** page in your Shopify admin. To learn more about product recommendation reports, refer to [Product recommendation conversion over time](https://help.shopify.com/manual/reports-and-analytics/shopify-reports/report-types/behaviour-reports#product-recommendation-conversions-over-time).

---

Was this page helpful?

YesNo